# Aria's work

KMP Algorithm:
- uses the degenerating property (pattern having the same sub-patterns appearing more than once in the pattern) of the pattern and improves the worst-case complexity to O(n+m). 
- uses previous matches to start searching the next set of chars after a mismatch in order to save time
- Constructs an array lps[] (longest proper prefix) ex) proper prefixes of ‘ABC’ are ‘’ ‘A’ and ‘AB’
- calculate values in lps[]. To do that, we keep track of the length of the longest prefix suffix value (we use len variable for this purpose) for the previous index
- use lps[] to find pattern in string by deciding next position easily
- Time Complexity: O(N+M) where N is the length of the text and M is the length of the pattern to be found.
- Auxiliary Space: O(M)

testcases:
text = "abcdabcdabcabdbadb"
pattern = "abc"
output: Pattern found at index 0.
        Pattern found at index 4.
        Pattern found at index 8.


text = "I do not like them in a house.
I do not like them with a mouse.
I do not like them here or there.
I do not like them anywhere.
I do not like green eggs and ham.
I do not like them, Sam-I-Am." - Dr. Seuss' "Green Eggs and Ham"
pattern = "like"
output: Pattern found at index 9.
        Pattern found at index 40.
        Pattern found at index 73.
        Pattern found at index 107.
        Pattern found at index 136.
        Pattern found at index 170.


text = "I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the
inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain." - Frank Herbert's "Dune"
pattern = "fear"
output: Pattern found at index 11.
        Pattern found at index 17.
        Pattern found at index 42.
        Pattern found at index 114.
        Pattern found at index 248.


text = "The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents. We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity, and it was not meant
that we should voyage far. The sciences, each straining in its own direction, have hitherto harmed us little; but some day the piecing together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas of reality, and
of our frightful position therein, that we shall either go mad from the revelation or flee from the deadly light into the peace and safety of a new dark age." - H.P Lovecraft's "The Call of Cthulhu"
pattern = "w"
output: Pattern found at index 31.
        Pattern found at index 113.
        Pattern found at index 200.
        Pattern found at index 219.
        Pattern found at index 278.
        Pattern found at index 376.
        Pattern found at index 383.
        Pattern found at index 475.
        Pattern found at index 581. 


text = "Dorothy lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies, with Uncle Henry, who was a farmer, and Aunt Em, who was the farmer's wife. Their house was small, for the lumber to build it had to be carried by wagon
many miles. There were four walls, a floor and a roof, which made one room; and this room contained a rusty looking cooking stove, a cupboard for the dishes, a table, three or four chairs, and the beds. Uncle Henry and
Aunt Em had a big bed in one corner, and Dorothy a little bed in another corner. There was no garret at all, and no cellar—except a small hole, dug in the ground, called a cyclone cellar, where the family could go in case
one of those great whirlwinds arose, mighty enough to crush any building in its path. It was reached by a trap-door in the middle of the floor, from which a ladder led down into the small, dark hole." - L. Frank Baum's "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz" 
pattern = "the"
output: Pattern found at index 17.
        Pattern found at index 30.
        Pattern found at index 114.
        Pattern found at index 133.
        Pattern found at index 160.
        Pattern found at index 222.
        Pattern found at index 356.
        Pattern found at index 403.
        Pattern found at index 497.
        Pattern found at index 510.
        Pattern found at index 580.
        Pattern found at index 623.
        Pattern found at index 770.
        Pattern found at index 784.
        Pattern found at index 829.
