# Caleb's Research

  I am researching the Rabin-Karp algorithm of the Pattern Searching Method. The Rabin-Karp algorithm is given
a text sequence as a String (character array) and a pattern sequence as a String (character array). The text sequence is of size n
and the pattern sequence is of size m. You may assume that n > m. The Rabin-Karp method is similar to the Naive
algorithm (see...), but the Rabin-Karp method uses a hash function to compare the total hash code of the pattern
sequence to the total hash code of the current substring of the text sequence. Each substring will be of size m. 

  Handling the hash value is as following, first find the hash value by using a rolling hash function. The reason
the Rabin-Karp method uses a rolling hash function is because it effectively finds the next hash value of the the next
substring by removing the beginning character of the first substring and adding the next character of the last index
of the previous substring to form a new hash value for the next substring. This works better and more efficiently then
determining a new hash value for the next substring by starting from scratch. We find the hash value by choosing a base
and a modulus, we determine the modulus as a good prime number to ensure good distribution of the hash values. We
determine the base, which is often the size of the total character set, (which is 256 for ASCII characters). 
Nextly, initalize the hash value and calculate the entire hash value of the pattern by adding the hash value of the character
at the current position to hash. 

  Once the hash value is determined, determine the hash value of the pattern and the text sequence, if the hash values of
the pattern sequence and the text sequence are the same then do a character by character search to determine if the characters
are the same. The reason we continue to do a character by character search is because we want to avoid hash collisions. If the 
pattern sequence and the current substring of the text sequence has the same hash code and have different characters or a different
sequence then the patterns are not the same. Once the substring and the pattern are fully compared then we will use the rolling
hash function to determine the next hash value of the next substring. We'll move the window by removing the first character of
the string and add the next index which is the next character to the substring to form a new subtring to compare. 

  The Rabin-Karp method has an average and best-case runtime of O(n+m), where n is the size of the character array, and m is the
size of the pattern array. It has a worst case runtime of O(nm), where n is the size of the character array, and m is the
size of the pattern array. The worst case occurs when all the characters of the pattern and text sequence are the same hash values
for all the substrings of the text sequence, but none of the patterns match. A case would be every substring of the same size as the
pattern sequence have the same hash value but are sorted in a different order (i.e., 'abc' != 'cba' and also called a spurious hit). 
To avoid this worst case, the better developed rolling a hash function develops a better runtime for the code.The Rabin-Karp method
uses O(1) auxiliary space, all the work is done on the text sequence.

Plan of implementation:
-> Develop a rolling hash function to determine the hash value
-> Develop a search method that prints the starting index of where the exact pattern is found (if found).
-? Develop test cases


Test Case Outputs:
------------------------
Starting test number 1.

The pattern sequence of this test is: null. And the text sequence is: This test cass will only print this.
------------------------
Starting test number 2.

The pattern sequence of this test is: Pattern. And the text sequence is: null.
------------------------
Starting test number 3.

The pattern sequence of this test is: Hello World. And the text sequence is: Goodbye World.

Total number of patterns found were 0.
------------------------
Starting test number 4.

The pattern sequence of this test is: Refill. And the text sequence is: Filler.

Total number of patterns found were 0.
------------------------
Starting test number 5.

The pattern sequence of this test is: AB. And the text sequence is: AABAABABABBAABAABBBAABAABABBA.
Pattern Found at index 1
Pattern Found at index 4
Pattern Found at index 6
Pattern Found at index 8
Pattern Found at index 12
Pattern Found at index 15
Pattern Found at index 20
Pattern Found at index 23
Pattern Found at index 25

Total number of patterns found were 9.
------------------------
Starting test number 6.

The pattern sequence of this test is: Wake up, it's time for school. And the text sequence is: Wake up, it's time for school.

Total number of patterns found were 0.
------------------------
Starting test number 7.

The pattern sequence of this test is: bee. And the text sequence is: I saw a bee on a flower petal this morning.
Pattern Found at index 8

Total number of patterns found were 1.
------------------------
Starting test number 8.

The pattern sequence of this test is: Pattern is longer than text sequence. And the text sequence is: Text sequence is shorter.
------------------------
Starting test number 9.

The pattern sequence of this test is: P. And the text sequence is: ARAQUMQVLZSQJJFQUXFIRRBRKHENIFSOXDNRZEUPZIQTSMQROI.
Pattern Found at index 39

Total number of patterns found were 1.
------------------------
Starting test number 10.

The pattern sequence of this test is: B. And the text sequence is: OHBIRNMGDIPTEZUSIIXRWZVVCSMDBIPNVWACBVXONCABSBGDVO.
Pattern Found at index 2
Pattern Found at index 28
Pattern Found at index 36
Pattern Found at index 43
Pattern Found at index 45

Total number of patterns found were 5.
------------------------
Starting test number 11.

The pattern sequence of this test is: CC. And the text sequence is: VKTMIBBOJJFMNEXEQHXFAKUWASEFYFIUTLYKXOZJAAONFLOKOM.

Total number of patterns found were 0.
------------------------
Starting test number 12.

The pattern sequence of this test is: NI. And the text sequence is: LUWRVCAZTFXUAOCXKCWSMUJZTAYPDVMWPRVDEHTVLZKONMJHFD.

Total number of patterns found were 0.
------------------------
Starting test number 13.

The pattern sequence of this test is: B. And the text sequence is: CDKVETPNUHXNLRCOTXYJOWUFEKAYZCGIIHQLALXFNIXFEHWUGQSWPYTINOBGBBEFFFRDIVCUUWYVTJLXYVNGLMBUDSKLSTYUKETS.
Pattern Found at index 58
Pattern Found at index 60
Pattern Found at index 61
Pattern Found at index 86

Total number of patterns found were 4.
------------------------
Starting test number 14.

The pattern sequence of this test is:  . And the text sequence is: J u s t a w h o l e b u n c h o f s p a c e s .
Pattern Found at index 1
Pattern Found at index 3
Pattern Found at index 5
Pattern Found at index 7
Pattern Found at index 9
Pattern Found at index 11
Pattern Found at index 13
Pattern Found at index 15
Pattern Found at index 17
Pattern Found at index 19
Pattern Found at index 21
Pattern Found at index 23
Pattern Found at index 25
Pattern Found at index 27
Pattern Found at index 29
Pattern Found at index 31
Pattern Found at index 33
Pattern Found at index 35
Pattern Found at index 37
Pattern Found at index 39
Pattern Found at index 41
Pattern Found at index 43

Total number of patterns found were 22.
------------------------

